MC	What is the purpose of the print() function in Python, and how is it used?	It displays information on the screen by enclosing text or variables in parentheses.	correct	It reads input from the user and returns it as a string.	incorrect	It calculates mathematical expressions without showing any output.	incorrect	It creates variables for later use.	incorrect
MC	How does the input() function work and why is it important?	It allows the program to receive user data by pausing execution until the user types something and presses Enter.	correct	It displays messages on the screen to debug code.	incorrect	It automatically assigns random values to variables.	incorrect	It prints error messages when something goes wrong.	incorrect
MC	What are variables in Python and how do you create one?	They are containers for storing data values, created by assigning a value to a name using the equals sign (=).	correct	They are functions that store user input and are defined with the keyword var.	incorrect	They are built-in data types that do not need to be defined by the user.	incorrect	They are reserved keywords used for loop iterations.	incorrect
MC	Which of the following are the four basic primitive data types in Python?	Strings, Integers, Floats, Booleans	correct	Strings, Lists, Dictionaries, Tuples	incorrect	Integers, Floats, Sets, Bytes	incorrect	Booleans, Lists, Sets, Integers	incorrect
MC	Which code snippet correctly combines print(), input(), and variables to greet a user?	print("Hello, " + input("Enter your name: "))	correct	name = "Enter your name: "; print(name)	incorrect	input("Hello, "); print("Enter your name: ")	incorrect	name = print("Enter your name: "); input("Hello, " + name)	incorrect
MC	Why is choosing meaningful variable names important?	It improves code readability and maintainability by reflecting the purpose of the data.	correct	It makes the code run faster.	incorrect	It prevents syntax errors.	incorrect	It allows the program to automatically debug itself.	incorrect
MC	What role does the print() function play in debugging code?	It displays variable values or messages at specific points in code execution to help track program flow and find errors.	correct	It pauses code execution until debugging is complete.	incorrect	It logs error messages to an external file.	incorrect	It replaces the need for conditional statements.	incorrect
MC	What are conditionals in programming and why are they important?	They allow the program to make decisions and execute different code blocks based on whether a condition is True or False.	correct	They are loops that repeat code blocks.	incorrect	They are used exclusively for user input validation.	incorrect	They serve to import external modules into the program.	incorrect
MC	How does an if statement work in Python?	It checks a condition and, if the condition evaluates to True, executes the indented block of code.	correct	It executes code regardless of any condition.	incorrect	It automatically repeats the code block if the condition is True.	incorrect	It assigns a default value if no condition is met.	incorrect
MC	What is the purpose of the elif and else statements when used with an if statement?	They provide additional conditions to check (using elif) and a default block (using else) when no previous conditions are True.	correct	They execute loops repeatedly until a condition is met.	incorrect	They define functions for conditional operations.	incorrect	They automatically convert data types.	incorrect
MC	Which of the following lists the logical operators used in conditional statements in Python?	and, or, not	correct	plus, minus, multiply	incorrect	if, else, elif	incorrect	greater, less, equal	incorrect
MC	How can you visualize the flow of a conditional statement?	By using a flowchart that shows the start, condition evaluation, branching based on True/False, and the end.	correct	By writing a detailed comment in the code.	incorrect	By running the program multiple times and checking the outputs.	incorrect	By creating a list of variables and their values.	incorrect
MC	Which of the following is a practical example of using conditionals in a simple program?	A program that determines whether it is warm or cold by comparing a user-entered temperature against a threshold.	correct	A program that determines whether to greet the user or say goodbye based on a menu selection.	incorrect	A program that reads a file and displays its content without any checks.	incorrect	A program that prints a constant message regardless of any input.	incorrect
MC	What is the main goal of using weather scenarios in programming education?	To make abstract programming concepts more tangible and relatable through real-world examples.	correct	To confuse students with real-world data.	incorrect	To replace the need for learning data types.	incorrect	To avoid using conditional statements in programs.	incorrect
MC	How can weather conditions like 'cold', 'warm', and 'hot' be used in a program?	By mapping them to specific numeric temperature ranges and using these thresholds to display messages.	correct	By printing them in random order.	incorrect	By using them as variable names only.	incorrect	By combining them into a single string without any conditions.	incorrect
MC	How can a program use temperature input to decide the weather condition?	By comparing the input against predefined numeric thresholds using conditional statements (if, elif, else).	correct	By storing the input in a file and printing it later.	incorrect	By ignoring the input and using a default value.	incorrect	By converting the input into a Boolean without comparison.	incorrect
MC	What is the purpose of a flowchart in visualizing weather decisions?	It provides a visual representation of the decision-making process, clarifying how different temperature inputs lead to different outputs.	correct	It shows the code structure in the source file.	incorrect	It displays error messages when the code fails.	incorrect	It replaces the need for comments in code.	incorrect
MC	Why are temperature thresholds important in connecting code to weather?	They establish clear, defined boundaries between different weather conditions, guiding decision-making in the program.	correct	They provide arbitrary numbers to complicate the code.	incorrect	They automatically adjust the output without conditions.	incorrect	They remove the need for user input.	incorrect
MC	Besides temperature, which other weather conditions could be included in a more complex weather program?	Precipitation, wind speed, and humidity	correct	Only temperature	incorrect	Only user names	incorrect	File directories and database connections	incorrect
MC	How does relating a basic input to a specific output support building more complex programming systems?	It provides a foundation that bridges abstract coding concepts with practical applications, enabling further complexity.	correct	It eliminates the need for conditional statements entirely.	incorrect	It ensures the program runs without any user interaction.	incorrect	It forces the use of loops instead of conditions.	incorrect
MC	What can be learned from designing a weather decision tree?	How to visualize and structure decision-making processes, which can help refine logic based on different conditions.	correct	How to calculate mathematical equations	incorrect	How to write long strings without conditions	incorrect	How to import modules automatically	incorrect
MC	What is a menu interface and why is it useful in text-based programs?	It presents a list of numbered or labelled options to help users navigate and interact with the program.	correct	It is a graphical user interface that displays images.	incorrect	It automatically runs all code blocks simultaneously.	incorrect	It disables user input to prevent errors.	incorrect
MC	How can you display a menu of options in Python?	By using the print() function to output each option on a separate line.	correct	By using the input() function to display text.	incorrect	By creating a graphical window.	incorrect	By defining a list of variables without displaying them.	incorrect
MC	How do you capture user input to determine their menu selection in Python?	By using the input() function to prompt the user and store their response in a variable.	correct	By using the print() function to record the selection.	incorrect	By automatically assigning a random value to a variable.	incorrect	By reading from a configuration file.	incorrect
MC	How can your program react differently based on the user's menu selection?	By using conditional statements (if-elif-else) to check the user’s input variable and execute different code blocks.	correct	By using loops to repeat the same output regardless of input.	incorrect	By ignoring the user input entirely.	incorrect	By restarting the program for every input.	incorrect
MC	What are the basic Python functions required to create a simple text-based menu?	print() and input()	correct	for() and while()	incorrect	read() and write()	incorrect	append() and remove()	incorrect
MC	Which of the following is an example of a complete, simple menu program in Python?	print("1. Greet the user")\nprint("2. Say goodbye")\nchoice = input("Enter your choice (1 or 2): ")\nif choice == "1":\n    print("Hello there!")\nelif choice == "2":\n    print("Goodbye!")\nelse:\n    print("Invalid choice.")	correct	choice = input("Enter your name: ")\nif choice == "1":\n    print("Hello there!")\nelse:\n    print("Goodbye!")	incorrect	print("Greet the user")\nprint("Say goodbye")\nname = input("What is your name?")	incorrect	print("1. Greet the user")\nprint("2. Say goodbye")\nname = input("Enter your name: ")\nprint("Hello, " + name)	incorrect
