MC	What is data in the context of programming, and why is it important?	Data is a collection of random numbers that have little purpose.	incorrect	Data is information stored and processed by a computer that forms the foundation of programs.	correct	Data is only used to display output on the screen.	incorrect	Data is a type of computer hardware.	incorrect
MC	What are the four basic data types in Python?	List, Tuple, Dictionary, and Set	incorrect	Integers, Floats, Strings, and Booleans	correct	Characters, Arrays, Objects, and Functions	incorrect	Numbers, Text, Files, and Classes	incorrect
MC	How are the basic data types applied in a real-world context such as a User Preferences project?	They are used to randomly generate program output.	incorrect	They are used to accurately represent different types of user information (e.g., age as an integer, rating as a float, name as a string, agreement as a Boolean).	correct	They determine the computer’s processing speed.	incorrect	They are only used for debugging purposes.	incorrect
MC	What are variables and what role do they play in programming?	Variables are fixed values that never change.	incorrect	Variables are reserved words that cannot be modified.	incorrect	Variables are named containers that store data, making code more readable and maintainable.	correct	Variables are only used for mathematical calculations.	incorrect
MC	How does the value stored in a variable determine its data type in Python?	Python requires explicit type declarations for variables.	incorrect	Python is statically typed so types must be declared before assignment.	incorrect	Python is dynamically typed and infers the data type from the assigned value.	correct	The data type is always set as a string regardless of the value.	incorrect
MC	Why are meaningful variable names important in programming?	They slow down the execution of the code.	incorrect	They improve code readability and ease maintenance by clarifying what data a variable holds.	correct	They are only needed for large projects.	incorrect	They have no effect on code functionality.	incorrect
MC	Can you reassign the value of a variable in Python, and how does this affect the variable's data type?	No, once assigned, a variable’s value and type cannot change.	incorrect	Yes, but the variable’s data type remains the same regardless of the new value.	incorrect	Yes, reassigning a variable can change its data type based on the new value.	correct	Reassignment is only possible with numeric variables.	incorrect
MC	Which of the following best demonstrates creating and displaying variables in Python?	print("Alice", 25, "blue")	incorrect	name = "Alice"; age = 25; favourite_colour = "blue"; print(name, age, favourite_colour)	correct	x = 10; y = 20; print(x + y)	incorrect	def myFunc(): pass	incorrect
MC	What is the purpose of the input() function in Python?	To display output to the user.	incorrect	To receive text-based input from the user and return it as a string.	correct	To perform calculations automatically.	incorrect	To format printed output.	incorrect
MC	Why is it useful to store the result of the input() function in a variable?	It prevents the program from receiving user input.	incorrect	It allows the program to reuse and manipulate the user’s input later.	correct	It automatically converts the input to a number.	incorrect	It improves the program’s security.	incorrect
MC	How does the print() function work in Python?	It only prints variables.	incorrect	It displays data—such as strings, numbers, and variables—to the console.	correct	It compiles the code before execution.	incorrect	It receives input from the user.	incorrect
MC	Which methods can be used to combine text and variables when using print()?	Only string concatenation using the + operator.	incorrect	Only comma-separated items.	incorrect	Both string concatenation (with +) and comma-separated items, each with its advantages.	correct	Combining text with variables is not possible in print().	incorrect
MC	Which simple Python program correctly uses input() and print() to greet a user?	name = input("Enter your name: "); print("Hello,", name)	correct	name = "Enter your name"; print(name)	incorrect	input("Hello")	incorrect	def greet(): return "Hello"	incorrect
MC	What should you keep in mind when handling user input in Python?	All user input is automatically converted to integers.	incorrect	The input() function always returns a string, so conversion might be necessary for other data types.	correct	User input is ignored by Python unless stored in a list.	incorrect	No validation is needed because the input is always correct.	incorrect
MC	How can the knowledge of input() and print() be applied in a User Preferences project?	They are irrelevant to a User Preferences project.	incorrect	They allow you to collect user preferences and display personalized feedback.	correct	They are used only for mathematical operations.	incorrect	They only work in graphical applications.	incorrect
MC	What will be covered in future modules that build on the concepts of input() and print()?	Advanced techniques for manipulating and formatting output, error handling, and data conversion.	correct	Only additional uses of the input() function.	incorrect	Topics unrelated to user interaction.	incorrect	Only hardware interfacing topics.	incorrect
MC	What is computational thinking in programming?	A method to speed up computer calculations.	incorrect	A problem-solving approach that breaks complex problems into smaller, manageable parts with clear, logical steps.	correct	A way to compile code faster.	incorrect	A tool for creating graphical user interfaces.	incorrect
MC	How can you break down a complex problem into manageable tasks?	Tackle the entire problem without planning.	incorrect	Divide the problem into smaller tasks and solve each individually.	correct	Use a trial and error method exclusively.	incorrect	Ignore the problem’s components and start coding immediately.	incorrect
MC	What is pseudocode?	A formal programming language with strict syntax rules.	incorrect	An informal, human-readable outline used to plan algorithms before writing actual code.	correct	A method for compressing data.	incorrect	A way to automatically generate code from comments.	incorrect
MC	What are the key steps in the Simplified Development Methodology?	Write code first and then fix errors later.	incorrect	Understand the problem, identify inputs/outputs, work through an example, write pseudocode, convert pseudocode to code, and test with various data.	correct	Only focus on testing after coding.	incorrect	Use a debugger without planning the code.	incorrect
MC	How does the Simplified Development Methodology help with debugging?	It eliminates the need for testing.	incorrect	By planning and testing each step, it makes it easier to identify and correct errors.	correct	It hides errors from the developer.	incorrect	It replaces the need for any debugging tools.	incorrect
MC	In a User Preferences project, which of the following could be considered user inputs?	The program’s source code.	incorrect	The user’s name, age, and favourite colour.	correct	System error logs.	incorrect	Hardware specifications of the computer.	incorrect
MC	Why is it important to test a program with a variety of data?	To ensure the program handles different scenarios and edge cases effectively.	correct	To make the program run faster.	incorrect	To simplify the code.	incorrect	To reduce the need for user input.	incorrect
MC	How does working through an example by hand assist in algorithm design?	It wastes time that could be spent coding.	incorrect	It helps identify logical flaws and gain a deeper understanding of the problem.	correct	It only applies to numerical problems.	incorrect	It replaces the need for pseudocode.	incorrect
MC	What is a variable in Python, and why are they important?	A fixed memory location that can never change.	incorrect	Named storage locations that hold data, making code more readable, maintainable, and reusable.	correct	Only used for arithmetic operations.	incorrect	An advanced feature used only by expert programmers.	incorrect
MC	How does the assignment operator (=) work in Python?	It compares two values for equality.	incorrect	It assigns the value on the right to the variable on the left.	correct	It is used only in loops.	incorrect	It creates a copy of a function.	incorrect
MC	Can a variable’s value be changed after it is initially assigned in Python?	No, variables in Python are immutable.	incorrect	Yes, variables can be reassigned new values at any time.	correct	Only variables containing numbers can be changed.	incorrect	Only if the variable is declared as mutable.	incorrect
MC	What are the basic arithmetic operators available in Python?	+, -, *, /, //, %, and **	correct	&&, ||, and !	incorrect	&, |, and ^	incorrect	Only + and -	incorrect
MC	What does “order of precedence” in arithmetic operations refer to?	The sequence in which operations are executed in an expression.	correct	The order in which variables are declared.	incorrect	The hierarchy of programming languages.	incorrect	The order of function definitions in code.	incorrect
MC	How can variables and arithmetic operations be used in personalizing user preferences?	They are used to store user data and perform calculations (for example, applying discounts).	correct	They are only used for error handling.	incorrect	They create graphical elements on the screen.	incorrect	They are not used in personalization.	incorrect
MC	Which scenario best combines variables, arithmetic operations, and user input?	Calculating a user’s expected age by taking input and performing a subtraction operation.	correct	Printing a static welcome message.	incorrect	Hard-coding values without user interaction.	incorrect	Using variables only for storing constants.	incorrect
MC	How does reassigning variables empower more complex programs?	It allows the program to work with changing data and perform dynamic calculations.	correct	It restricts the program to a single data type.	incorrect	It makes the program more difficult to maintain.	incorrect	It slows down program execution.	incorrect

