MC	What is a function in Python?	A variable that stores data	incorrect	A reusable block of code designed to perform a specific task	correct	A built-in data type	incorrect	A loop that iterates over a sequence	incorrect
MC	Why are functions useful in programming?	They increase code repetition and clutter	incorrect	They break down complex code into manageable, self-contained pieces	correct	They make the code run slower	incorrect	They eliminate the need for comments	incorrect
MC	How do you define a function in Python?	Using the function keyword	incorrect	Using the def keyword	correct	Using the define keyword	incorrect	Using the func keyword	incorrect
MC	What is the basic syntax for defining a function?	def function_name(parameters):  # Code to be executed  return value	correct	function function_name(parameters):	incorrect	def function_name(parameters) body:	incorrect	define function_name(parameters):	incorrect
MC	How do you call a function in Python?	function_name(arguments)	correct	call function_name(arguments)	incorrect	execute function_name(arguments)	incorrect	function_name <- arguments	incorrect
MC	Why is it important to define a function before calling it?	Python compiles functions in reverse order	incorrect	Python reads code from top to bottom	correct	Functions are preloaded automatically	incorrect	It isn’t important as Python finds the definition later	incorrect
MC	What is the purpose of indentation within a function definition?	To define the start of a loop	incorrect	To indicate the block of code that belongs to the function	correct	To improve code aesthetics only	incorrect	To separate functions in different files	incorrect
MC	How do functions promote modular design in Python?	They merge all code into one continuous block	incorrect	They break complex problems into smaller, independent parts	correct	They require global variables for operation	incorrect	They force you to write code in one file	incorrect
MC	What is the difference between a parameter and an argument?	A parameter is the actual value passed; an argument is the placeholder	incorrect	A parameter is the placeholder in the function definition; an argument is the actual value passed	correct	There is no difference	incorrect	A parameter is only used in methods, and an argument only in functions	incorrect
MC	Why is it important to understand the difference between parameters and arguments?	To ensure the correct number and order of values are passed	correct	Because parameters are always optional	incorrect	So that arguments can be automatically converted to strings	incorrect	It is not important in practice	incorrect
MC	What are positional arguments and why is their order important?	They are arguments passed by explicitly naming them	incorrect	They are arguments passed based solely on their order in the function call	correct	Their order isn’t important at all	incorrect	They are optional parameters provided at the end	incorrect
MC	How do default parameter values work and what are their benefits?	They override any provided arguments	incorrect	They assign a value if no argument is provided	correct	They force the function to always return the same result	incorrect	They are only used for debugging	incorrect
MC	Which of the following is an example of a function with a default parameter?	def greet(name, greeting="Hello"): print(f"{greeting}, {name}!")	correct	def greet(name, greeting): print(greeting, name)	incorrect	def greet(name, "Hello"): print("Hello", name)	incorrect	def greet(name default="Hello"): print(greeting, name)	incorrect
MC	How do you create a function that takes two parameters, with one parameter having a default value?	def function(param1=default, param2)	incorrect	def function(param1, param2=default)	correct	def function(param1, param2 default)	incorrect	def function(param1 default, param2)	incorrect
MC	What happens if you try to call a function with more arguments than it has parameters?	The extra arguments are ignored	incorrect	Python raises a TypeError	correct	The function automatically uses default values	incorrect	The function returns None	incorrect
MC	How can you tell which arguments a function requires?	By checking the function’s definition and documentation	correct	By guessing based on the function’s name	incorrect	Python automatically displays them in the console	incorrect	By running the function without any parameters	incorrect
MC	What is the purpose of the return statement in a function?	To display a value on the screen	incorrect	To send a value back to the calling code	correct	To terminate the entire program	incorrect	To define a variable	incorrect
MC	Why is it useful to return a value from a function instead of just printing it?	Because returning a value allows for further use in the program	correct	Because printing values is slower than returning them	incorrect	Because returned values are automatically saved to a file	incorrect	Because printing is only used for debugging	incorrect
MC	How does returning a value differ from printing a value in a function?	Returning a value makes it available for further processing; printing only displays it	correct	They are the same in Python	incorrect	Printing sends the value to a file; returning sends it to the screen	incorrect	Returning always converts the value to a string; printing does not	incorrect
MC	Which of the following is a correct example of a function using the return statement?	def add(x, y): return x + y	correct	def add(x, y): print(x + y)	incorrect	def add(x, y): x + y	incorrect	def add(x, y): output x + y	incorrect
MC	What happens if a function doesn't have a return statement?	It returns 0	incorrect	It returns None	correct	It raises an error	incorrect	It returns an empty string	incorrect
MC	Can a function return multiple values in Python?	No; a function can only return one value	incorrect	Yes; by returning a tuple, list, or dictionary	correct	Yes; by using multiple return statements	incorrect	No; you must use global variables instead	incorrect
MC	In which scenario would using a return statement be particularly advantageous?	When you want to print a message immediately	incorrect	When you need the computed value for further calculations	correct	When you want to stop the program execution	incorrect	When you want to bypass error handling	incorrect
MC	How can you practice using the return statement to improve your coding skills?	By writing functions that only print values	incorrect	By writing simple functions that compute values and then using those values in other parts of your code	correct	By avoiding functions and using inline code only	incorrect	By using return statements inside loops only	incorrect
MC	What are modules in Python?	Loops that run multiple times	incorrect	Self-contained units of code that provide specific functionalities	correct	Special variables for storing functions	incorrect	Built-in debugging tools	incorrect
MC	What are the two main ways to import modules in Python?	import module and include module	incorrect	import module and from module import function	correct	load module and require module	incorrect	include module and using module	incorrect
MC	When should you use import module versus from module import function?	Use import module when you need only one function from a module	incorrect	Use import module when you want to import the entire module and avoid naming conflicts	correct	Use from module import function to import all functions from the module	incorrect	There is no practical difference between the two	incorrect
MC	What are the key benefits of importing modules?	They promote code duplication and complexity	incorrect	They enable code reusability, improved organisation, and efficiency	correct	They only serve to increase the file size of your program	incorrect	They limit the functionality available in your code	incorrect
MC	How is the datetime module relevant to business applications?	It only handles string manipulation	incorrect	It provides functionality for handling dates and times, which is useful for time-stamping, scheduling, and logging	correct	It is used exclusively for graphical user interfaces	incorrect	It simplifies network programming	incorrect
MC	Which of the following code snippets correctly gets the current date and time using the datetime module?	import datetime current_datetime = datetime.datetime.now() print(current_datetime)	correct	import datetime current_datetime = datetime.now() print(current_datetime)	incorrect	from datetime import datetime current_datetime = now() print(current_datetime)	incorrect	import datetime current_datetime = datetime.get_current_time() print(current_datetime)	incorrect
MC	What kinds of tasks can you perform with the datetime module?	Only formatting dates	incorrect	Creating datetime objects, formatting dates, calculating differences, extracting components, and handling time zones	correct	Only calculating the difference between two dates	incorrect	Only extracting the year from a date	incorrect
MC	What should you consider when experimenting with modules for real-world business scenarios?	How many functions the module contains	incorrect	How the module can solve specific business problems, improve maintainability, and integrate with other systems	correct	Only the aesthetic of the module’s code	incorrect	That modules are rarely applicable in business applications	incorrect
